Object-oriented design (OOD) is about shifting your thinking of the world as a set of predefined procedures to modeling the world as a series of messages that pass between objects. The failures of OOD is actually a failure of perspective than it is a failure of coding techniques. Object oriented design techniques solve both the moral and technical dilemmas of programming: you end up producing cost-effective software using code that is also a pleasure to work on.

Applications are made up of parts(objects) and interactions(messages) between those parts. Getting the right message to the correct target object requires that the sender of the message know things about the receiver, which creates dependencies between the two and stand in the way of change that is bound to happen. OOD is about managing those dependencies and altering them in a way where the objects can tolerate change.

In a more practical sense, every application is just a collection of code. That code’s arrangement is the design. And so design is just the art of arranging code. Practical design doesn’t seek to anticipate what will happen in the future of the application; it writes the code so that it is changeable so that in the future, when the application is changing, it does so with ease.

Design fails when programmers over design to the point where when asked to change a feature, they respond saying it wasn’t designed to do that. On the flip side, separating the act of design from the act of programming also results in a failure of design because in order for design to work, it relies on a feedback loop; it is a process of progressive discovery. This is particularly great in the Agile software movement, where the iterative nature of the development allows for design to adjust and evolve regularly. And because the Agile process guarantees change, it means that if you cannot write well designed code, you’ll have to rewrite your application during every iteration. The success of Agile development relies on simple, flexible, and malleable (well designed) code.