# Jiubei – Level 3 Reckless Rogue (Arcane Trickster)

200 years ago, the universities were at the heart of Xin culture. Any parent with means would do whatever they could to prepare their child for the entrance exams. Youths with a talent for wizardry who passed the tests brought honor to their family, and could look forward to a position in the government. A rare few might become archmages, taking up positions of power in the university. Such men had the ear of the emperor,  and the respect of all learned men.
  
If Jiubei had been born 200 years ago, he would have been the greatest wizard in his generation.
        
Jiubei is a thin man, but he drinks like a horse. He is an intelligent man, but no sage in Cijing would have him as a student. He is a noble man, but today, he lives in squalor. 
         
In short, he is a man full of contradictions, containing within himself high and low, cunning and recklesness, wisdom and ignorance.
  
He speaks of his past with bitterness. A night of drinking ended in roaring flames, sparked by his own errant magic. The university expelled him, as it was not the first time he had made trouble. His family disowned him, and he shed his family’s name. Jiubei had nowhere to go, so he came here, into the slums of Cijing.
  
We welcomed him. It was partly because he seemed so pitiful that first night, like an old man, swaddled in his blanket. He had been burned in the fire, and had no money for medicine. But we were also curious. What was it that they taught at the university? Were our mothers’ stories of wizards mere fantasy, or did such power exist?
  
He is quick to condemn his old teachers, but he has found much success employing their lessons. The people of Cijing were unprepared for his magic, and expected nothing but virtue from a young student of the university. He has by this time succeeded in many robberies, and other crimes besides.

Despite this, he must save all his money, for I have never seen him eat, and he wears the same clothes as the day I met him. He does not speak of the future, but I do not think he will stay here long. The cunning and ambition for which the university accepted him as a student still smolder within him. Some day, I will wake up to find that he has taken his things, and I will never see him again.
