\chapter{Introduction}

There are many different reasons for requiring physical therapy. They vary from recovering from a car crash to being born with physical disabilities. The goal of these therapy sessions is respectively to make sure that the patient can recover as much as possible from his injuries or to train the muscles, preventing the situation from deteriorating.\\

Especially for children, physical exercises performed during therapy can be demotivating. Combining these exercises with playing computer games leads to an increased willingness to continue with the exercises \cite{Brauner2013}.\\

The purpose of this thesis is to present a more sustainable solution to this problem in a way that offers more flexibility to the therapist, both in terms of the exercises that need to be done by the patients and the games they can play by performing the exercises.


\section{Discussion of the problem}

Patients often see exercises as a part of physical therapy as being fatiguing, monotonous and tedious. This problem is even more prominent with young patients and can quickly demotivate them, especially when the exercises are uncomfortable or painful to perform \cite{Annema2013}.\\

Computer games already exist that can support physical exercises. For instance, there are games that run on Microsoft's XBox console and accept user input through the Kinect 3D camera, or Nintendo's Wii console that use a controller with accelerometers and gyrosensors. Additionally, games exist that can run on a computer, using any combination of sensors for user input, and are specifically made for use by physical therapists and their patients. An example of such a game is \emph{Kungfu Kitchen}, which is a collection of mini-games that can be played for instance with a Kinect camera \cite{KungFuKitchen}. However, these kind of games have in common that they are very static by nature and are often not suited for the specific needs of a patient \cite{Geurts2011}. For instance, a game that focuses on arm movement is not very effective at exercising the leg muscles of a patient. In other words, concerning the therapy, this game is meaningless for a patient that had leg surgery.\\

In addition, these static games have fixed input gestures that patients have to perform in order to control the action on screen. Even if the gestures perfectly fit the exercise requirements for a specific patient, the decrease in attractiveness of playing the same game over and over again is problematic and loses its long-term effect. Physical therapist Dries Lamberts has experience with children with disabilities and uses computer games as a form of exercise. The initial reaction of the children to these games is positive. They are more engaged in doing physical exercises and feel motivated while doing so. On the downside, this effect only lasts until the novelty of the game wears off. After that, the children lose interest in the game and, as such, in performing the exercises.\\

As games are expensive to develop \cite{Nakevska2011}, there is no wide variety of motion games that are tailor-made for people with specific needs and at the same time offer varied gameplay mechanics to remain interesting over longer periods of time. From the therapist's point of view, the game needs to support the right type of exercises and the game itself has to be considered fun as well by the patients for them to keep invested in it. If any of these conditions are not fulfilled, therapists can be less inclined to purchase the game and patients can be less motivated to play it. Because of these reasons, it is questionable if producing these kind of games is economically sustainable.


\section{Purpose of the research}

This thesis focuses on the design and implementation of an application called OmniPlay. OmniPlay provides a more flexible and dynamic solution to the problem discussed above. It lets the physical therapist choose what exercises the patient has to do and how these can be used as an input to control any computer game that uses keyboard input. All of this can be done without requiring the therapist to have any programming knowledge.\\

The goal is to have an application the therapist can control by mainly using the Kinect camera. To provide the user with a more streamlined interaction process, switching between Kinect input and mouse input is minimized. As such, the therapist can stay in the same spot in front of the camera. Interaction needs to feel simple, efficient and natural to do. This minimizes the setup time before a patient can start playing. It is necessary to research the type of interface that is required to meet these objectives, in addition to finding out the easiest way to interact with an on-screen application using a camera for input.